>> Nina Zakharenko: So very quickly,
yesterday we looked at the request and
response cycle for an API.
Think of routing in
Flask as the same thing.
Flask is our web application,
consider it our server.
So our client is the browser.
In this case, I'm asking for
the route URL from my server, and
my server is returning a response, just
a plain old string that says, hello world.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Declaring
routes in Flask.
We saw that forward slash
resolves to the route.
But we can also put in as
many paths as we want.
Let's say bonjour_worlds returns,
"Bonjour, World!".
By default, we want all of our
visitors to see, "Hello World!",
but optionally,
if they wanna take the special path for
let's say France, we can do that.
So we would wanna declare a new app route.
So still the forward slash,
that's the route.
But now I'm gonna say /french.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And make sure
that your Flask app is running here.
Before we do that,
I'm gonna show you something pretty handy.
In Flask you can have the debug mode for
you local environment,
where you can have your site
just live reload your code.
So that you don't have to type your new
function, change your route, play around
with things, kill the server, start it
back up again, pretty tedious process.
So here, just like we set
the Flask app to be hello.py,
we want to back up a little bit.
And we want to set a new
environment variable.
And we're gonna set FLASK_ENV =
development
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
I'm just gonna copy that.
So for Mac, it would be this and
for Windows,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Hopefully,
sorry about that.
For Windows, hopefully I can just,
come on, VS Code,
you are not collaborating with me today.
Hopefully I can just copy and
paste this whole thing,
and that does the right trick.
So I'm saying that FLASK_ENV
is equal to development,
>> Nina Zakharenko: For Windows.
Okay, now when we run Flask with
our development environment,
we'll see that debug mode is on.
And it'll say, restarting what stat,
the debugger's active.
And now let's see.
If we go to our webpage,
we should be able to load it just fine.
Now if we try to add the path french,
we'll see that the more
specific route was picked up.
Or I'm sorry, the route for
french was picked up.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can
do a lot with this app.route.
You can even accept parameters.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can give
type hints for those parameters.
You can specify which HTTP methods
you want to accept in your route.
For example, just get or just post.
Let's try to make a new route
that accepts a parameter.
So I'm gonna call this
app route /name/ and
then a new symbol here, these brackets.
And I'm gonna put a,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Name in here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now I can say,
I'm gonna write a new function here,
and my function has to
accept this one parameter
because I defined it in the app.route.
And I'm gonna return an f string,
and it's gonna say, Hello, and name.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, now,
saving this, I don't have to stop and
start my server.
I'm gonna go to the path name/Nina, and
now whatever I put at the end of this
URL will be used as a parameter.